MSc Project on improving performance in elite sports using machine learning

Machine learning is gaining much attention in elite sports and for a wide range of different applications - including performance, training, injury prevention, and more recently social media brand management. The academic focus over the past few years has been on football, particularly the Australian and English Football Leagues, and using machine learning to predict outcomes; select the right players; and prevent injury. Constantinou and Fenton have written most extensively over the last decade on how to apply machine learning in football performance predictions from the perspective of commercial opportunity to calculate more accurate odds for gambling companies. Their ‘pi-football’ model predicts total league points for a team over the season comparing favourably to other methods used currently in the industry by eliminating bias.

Elite rugby is also a sport where data is changing the game. Due to its technical nature, the aim of current performance data analysis focuses on discovering ‘winning trends’ as Bill Gerrard did with the ‘kicking game’ in his role as Saracen’s technical analyst. Despite Saracen’s recent announcement of their three year partnership with Acronis ‘to deliver player career tracking using … artificial intelligence’; the majority of elite rugby teams are still focused on descriptive analytics to measure and improve performance. This analysis evaluates if predictive analytics - defined here as applying models to data to predict new observations in order to understand what achieves a desired outcome - offers tangible value for the coaching team in a real-world environment.

I am not able to provide the dataset here due to confidentality but I have included my code and the final report [Windrum_SJ_MachineLearning_EliteSports.pdf](https://github.com/SarahWindrum/machinelearning-elitesports/files/10685881/Windrum_SJ_MachineLearning_EliteSports.pdf)
